# Week four

**Foundation Programming:** This week we covered more **loops** and **selection**. Whilst I have covered these topics _before_ with my time programming, C is a lot more close to metal \(hardware\), and therefore doesn't have high level programming language features such as **garbage collection**, instead you can manually adjust the **heap** and **malloc**, and more. Whilst this is _beyond the week's content_, it's important that I read more _complex_ theories to **challenge myself**. One of the more _interesting_ features I learnt was the function of **buffers**, and how it affects **Input** from the **user** during program **runtime**.

**Communication and Learning Skills:** This week I found very interesting, as we covered **time management** in lectures. I have always **felt** like I _do not have any time_, instead I should be **asking the question** of "_am I managing my time as well as I can?_". This personal philosophy led me on a path of self improvement in which I am always trying to get **the most done in 24 hours**, at _maximum_ **effeciency** and _without_ **burning out** in the process. After the time management lectures, it advocated me to assess my **workflow**, which includes my workflow at _home_, at _work_, at _university_ and _freelancing_. We also started **group work**, in which my group was the only _non randomly_ allocated group, which makes life a lot more '**normal**' as our group is one of the only **in-person** group. So far, the group work has been _fine_, I feel like me and Jack can **spearhead** a lot of the **operations,** which can mean we make a lot of the **project decisions**, but we are only in _early days_ so I'll review this statement at a _later date_.

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** Mathematics this week I felt was rather **slow**. This is because we covered **logarithms**, a topic I am _already familiar_ with. Therefore, I found myself _zoning out a lot_ and letting my **mind wonder**. However, there was an **exception**, I think the way Kingsley integrates a **story** into his lectures, makes them **captivating** and **intriguing** at times, ****regardless of _previous_ knowledge of the topic. I also **submitted** my first _maths assignment_, **early** on, so it is out the way.

**Computing Project:** The focus this week was on **CSS**. Like maths, I'm already _extremely familiar_ with **CSS** due to the fact I **work** part-time as a **web developer** at a startup company. Although, I think going _back over the basics_ was a **breath of fresh** air, no _sass_, no _minifying_, no _backend_ capabilities, just pure **static websites**. During lectures, I tend to **wonder off** and work on my _personal website_, as I think this is a _better_ use of my time, if there are concepts I _haven't_ heard of, I will **stop working** on my website and **tune back in** to the lecture. 

**Summative Evaluation:** Overall I think the week has been **slow**, with a _few_ interesting **sparks**. This is a result of covering _basic_ topics that I **already have** a lot of **experience** in. I'm _ahead_ of my assignments, and need to start **planning** out the next week 2 weeks appropiately as I now have **group work** added to my plate. I think for next week, I will _attempt_ to use **time circles** to theorize _how_ I **spend** my **time** and _how_ it can be **optimized**, as well as _seeing_ if there is any **unbalances**. I have _added_ this to my [SMART goals](../../smart-goals-1.md#smart-goals), as well as adding a Time Circles page [**here**](../../time-circles.md), on this GitBook, that will **record my time circles** for the week beginning on 26/10/2020. 

