# Week seven

**Foundation Programming:** This week we covered **refactoring code** as well as passing paramters **by value** and **by reference**. Although, the main focus this week was _making significant progress_ on the **programming project**. So far, the programming project has taught me that _adapting to different methodologie_s of **structuring code**, can be more **difficult** than thought of at first glance. I came to this conclusion as the way I **program** at **work**, **side projects**, and now Richard's **programming assignment**, are all _vastly_ **different**. Amount of **lines of code in functions**, **naming conventions** and **syntax structure** all **differ** amongst the three paradigms of which I code \(work, side projects and assignments\). Thus as a result, the **programming assignment** is taking _longer than planned_, nevertheless I am making _good progres_s in completing it.

**Communication and Learning Skills:** This week we had our **presentation.** Execution of the presentation was **fine**. We were a _little strapped for time towards the end of our presentation_, but managed to just about _finish the summary of the presentation in time_. This was due to **one** of the **sections** of the presentation taking **double the amount of time** than when we had **practiced** the **presentation**. Our group didn't account for this, so _even though it was a bumpy ride, it smoothed out and we got to the destination in the end_. The other CLS sessions involved **advisory presentations**, and just cracking on with **other assigned module work** during the time the **other presentations** were being **assessed**. I am happy with performance of everyone in the group. My **group peers** were very **respectful lads**, who **all bought** something **different** to table in terms of **perspective** and **ideas**.

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** As discussed last week, the topics this week were **matricies** and **MATLAB**, two mostly **new areas** for me. As a result, _I intended to block out more time_. However, due to **assignments**, as well as _undertaking a new project from work_, I was **unable** to slot in the **extra revision** I had _originally planned_. I would like to add though that I believe the **pre**-**reading** I did, on top of **in class consolidaiton** means I do _fundamentally understand_ **matricies**. I would have just liked to _practice some more if I had the time_, to really have a _true basis of knowledge_ for **matricies** and **their capabilties**.

To briefly go on a **tangent**, a **concept** involving **matricies** was introduced this week by Kingsley that implied: _In theory, with enough layers of abstraction, we can simplify information that our brains process everyday, to numbers. This in turn would mean if you input the numbers that represent a specific image into your brain. The exact same sensation of seeing the image will occur. This topic was further explained and intertwined with the idea that matricies can be used in ophthalmology, to repair human vision. Which is closely tied to my biggest life goal._

**Computing Project:** This week involved starting a project to **build a website** using all the information we have learnt in class. Whilst the project **guideline** was to **build** a **static website** for charity. I decided to **extrapolate** and **modify** the project to _fit my SMART goals_. This entails **building a blogging website**, in which I will **blog** in a method _to **demonstrate** my understanding of_ **science**, **technology** and **life** itself. I have designed a **website mockup**, which is how I **envision** the final product to look like, the mockup can be found [here](../computing-project-personal-blogging-website.md).

In addition, we had lecture 3 of 3 on **Artificial Intelligence**. In which the lecture taught me about **systems**. Systems honed in on the idea that **artificial machine systems, consist** of **subsystems**, to **create** an **overarching system**, just like in humans. _As a footnote, the idea of subsystem got me thinking if the way we are approaching artificial intelligence, more importantly building it, is wrong? I put forward the idea in my thought process that maybe we shouldn't be creating machines to be like humans, and instead account for difference between machine and human architecture. On the flip side, it can be argued the only major biological system we really understand is humans, hence why they are the cornerstone for artificially intelligent machines._

**Summative Evaluation:** This week was **tougher than normal.** This is likely due to **undertaking a new work project**, as well as learning a mostly **new mathematical concept**, being **matricies**. Although, ****_with my new workflow in place, I know exactly what needs to be done_. It's a matter of _finding the time and prioritising the assignments_. I was starting to **stress** out that there is **a lot** to be **done**, when as a matter of fact, I have it all **under control** and had **anxiety** about it for **no reason**.

