# Week five

**Foundation Programming:** This week we covered **arrays** and **strings**. The most intriguing thing we covered was the way **declaring string literals** \(_array of characters_\) work, as there is **always** a **trailing \0** \(NULL\) byte. This is only the case, when the NULL terminator is added, when characters are declared _like a string_ \("hello world"\), rather than _individual characters_, char letters\[4\] = { 'h', 'e', 'l', 'l', '0' }. This touched base on the theory and concept of **pointers**. Which is interesting because I've only ever worked with **high level languages**, where the **stack** is a lot **further** from **metal** \(_hardware_\), and a lot of the _under the hood_ side of things is covered up. So whilst the **content** was _at times slow_, some of the concepts advocated _theory of computers,_ of which _I don't know a lot about_, which made the **content more digestable**.

**Communication and Learning Skills:** This week we covered **researching methods** and did more **group work**. I'm _happy_ with how our group is working out. Although, I have learnt this week that **working** in **tandem** with **3 other people** can be a lot more **difficult** than it seems **due to** easily **going down a rabbit hole of questions** when asking a question to the group. I have carried out a _week's worth_ of **time circling**, and although it has _consumed around an extra hour of my free time_, I think it **has been worth it**. I can look at **each day** and **assess productivity** and **time management**. Now that I have done a whole week, I can also look at a _week's worth of data_, essentially looking at the **bigger picture**. We also touched on the **Harvard referencing style** which I intend to _use and get better with over time_.

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** Mathematics this week was **alright**. We covered _lines_ and _curves_, more specifically, **quadratics** and **polar co-ordinates**. I found the topic of **polar co-ordinates** especially **interesting**, as in **computer vision**, to be more precise, **bionic eyes** is a topic that I_'d like to delve quite deep into_. And the concept of polar co-ordinates binds to bionic eyes becuase Kingsley stated in one of the lectures, that _polar co-ordinates is the underlying theme of computer vision_, and ****the concept of **polar co-ordinates** can also **be applied** to **human eyes**.

**Computing Project:** The focus this week was **CSS**, as well as a **lecture touching** on **artificial intelligence**. I think the **artificial intelligence** lecture seemed a bit **dry** considering it was from _Kingsley_. The CSS was fairly straight forward. As with previous topics, even though I know how to write CSS fluently, some _lesser_ known **features** such as the **types** of selectors and the **range of selectors**. This prompted me to think about how to **structure** my **CSS** code _syntatically_ to **effectively** use the **different types** of **selectors** 

**Summative Evaluation:** Overall I think the week has been **fine** in _most_ aspects. Like previous weeks, even though it's content _I am already familar with_, there are small **snippets of information** that really **stimulate** my **thoughts** on the more **complex areas** of the topics I am familiar with. Due to not being _as productive as I could have been_, I'm not _as_ **far ahead** on my **pre-reading** and **assignment** work as I could have been. As well as being lazy and **missing** out **one** of my **SMART** goals _this week_ \(2 mile run\).

