# Week eight

**Foundation Programming:** This week we covered **pointers.** This was interesting because like in previous weeks, the mention of _C being close to metal \(hardware\)_ was referenced. The pointers topic was interesting because it raises ideas about _computer architecture_, mainly being the **stack** and the **heap**. In addition, I _handed in my programming assignment_. This was a big **relief off** my **shoulders**, as it is one less assignment to complete. I am _happy with the submission_ for this assignment, I'm **confident** that I _completed all the tasks on the brief_, as well as becoming a **better C** **programmer** by building the project. We also got our **second programming assignment**, and _I have added appropriate date and to do tasks to my productivity system._

**Communication and Learning Skills:** This week we got our **presentation results** back, being **73/100**. Whilst I was **aiming** for a mark in the **90 percent** or above **range**, we can **consider** the _different style of this assignment_, being **group work**. Since it was group work, **perfect execution** must _not only come from_ **yourself** but _also from your_ **peers** as well. Which can be **unreliable**, as **chemistry** between peers must be **built over long periods of time**. You also must **consider everyone's style** to the assignment, as _everyone will approach the task differently, adding a layer of complexity_. Saying all this, I am extremely **happy** with my **group peers**, they are a great bunch of people, who _respected all ideas I put forward_, and _completed designated research tasks without fail_, as well _communicating properly to put forward agendas and plans_.

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** The agenda this week was **differentiation**. The content itself was _fairly straight forward_ as I am **experienced** with **calculus** from _previous education_. Although, I found it particularly **interesting** to **learn about** the **applications** of **calculus** particularly **nature**. 

The most _intriguing application of_ **calculus** throughout **nature** was one that Kingsley had briefly touched on in class, being **financial trading algorithms**. Working for small finance start-up, it was especially interesting to hear this as if we _abstract some layers from human behaviour_, we can confidently say that the _best algorithms built by traders, can be defined as a set of rules_ in which the trader created the algorithm, all **based on calculus**. This means that **in theory**, if a machine uses _all of the rules_ that were set to create the algorithm, it would mean _the machine no different to a 9-5 working, world class trader._

**Computing Project:** This week involved working on **building a website.** Whilst the idea was the code a **dynamic website using php**, since _php is relatively new to me_, I decided to **first** make work on **creating** the **website statically**, to validate the website architecture. **Building** the website **statically** is also _less time consuming_, which is important because I have _at least one_ **assignment** due **every week** up until the **end of term**, week 11.

In addition to the website, I have also completed the report assignment. Where I researched **web stacks** involved in **web development**, going into various examples, such as _the_ **LAMP, MEAN and WISA** web stacks. I am **happy** with the **turnout of my report**, I think the biggest skills gained were _fully understanding the methodology of undertaking a report project_, so understanding exactly what I am researching and why, _learning how to reference effectively_ and _being concise and meticulous with the content I am writing_, _paying great attention to detail due to the word limit_.

**Summative Evaluation:** This week was a good learning experience, as the **workload** was **heavier** than normal, with the new work project in progress as well as 3 assignments I want to make great progress with or even complete. This meant **vigorous planning**, and **staying disciplined** to **executing the task efficiently**. As a result, the idea of **focus capacity** came into play. _How many hours can I focus in a day?  How many hours are humans biologically capable of carrying out laser focused work a day? How many hours do I usually focus for effectively a day? How many hours is the cut off point for diminishing returns? Can this be improved?_ I have written a comprehensive answer to this topic as a short page about in my notes on Notion, which I will move to GitBook once I have more time.

I also made slight **adjustments** to my **workflow**, which included having: a **page** on _notion_ where I can **view** all of my **assignments**, their _due dates_, their _weight of the overall module_ course as well as the _mark I have received in the assignment_. As well as a page that approaches my **projects** I am handling with a **spaced repetition** technique, to combat the[ Ebbinghaus’ forgetting curve](https://adnantech.gitbook.io/wiki/neuroscience/hermann-ebbinghaus-forgetting-curve), as well as constantly making small, incremental progress on the projects.

