# 233555

## **Part 1)**

**1a) In the Landolt-C acuity test, a typical performance for accurately identifying the position of the gap in the C-like character was 0.75mm in size, at a distance of 3000mm. What angle is subtended by the gap at this threshold? Give your answer in Minutes of arc.**

$$
{\theta} = arctan (\dfrac{object \space size}{distance \space to \space object})
$$

$$
{\theta} = arctan (\dfrac{0.75}{3000})=0.01432394458 \space arcsec
$$

$$
0.01432394458 \times 60 = 0.8594366748 \space arcmin
$$

$$
0.859 \space arcmin \space (3.s.f)
$$

**1b) What was the visual angle calculated from the size of a single cone photoreceptor in part 1 of the workshop session?**

5 cones across the scale resulting in each cone being 0.002mm in size (0.01 / 5). Distance is the focal length, which is percieved to be 17mm.

$$
{\theta} = arctan (\dfrac{object \space size}{distance \space to \space object})
$$

$$
{\theta} = arctan (\dfrac{0.002}{17}) = 0.006740679912 \space arcsec
$$

$$
0.006740679912 \times 60 = 0.4044407947 \space arcmin
$$

$$
0.404 \space arcmin \space (3.s.f)
$$

**1c) What is the best performance one would predict for the Landolt-C acuity test, given the visual angle from 1b? Explain your answer and briefly discuss the similarity/difference in your answers to 1a and 1b \[100 words] - 91 word count**

The best case performance prediction for the Landolt-C test would be a visual acuity threshold of a single photoreceptor, 0.404 minutes of arc. The similarities are that they are within similar bounds of minute arc figure, in that the visual acuity threshold of the Landolt-C test is approximately the same visual arc minute as two visual cone photoreceptor cells. Whereas the differences occur in the conditions, when performing the Landolt-C test, brightness, period of exposure and are considered. Human or rounding errors are also likely to occur at higher measuring units.

## Part 2)

**2a) Give a concise account of how lateral inhibition can explain the edge enhancement seen in the mach band illusion. \[80 words] - 80 word count**

Lateral inhibition occurs when there the photoreceptor output of the "off" area surpasses the amount of photoreceptor output by the "on" area due to photoreceptors acting as a sum of output. In the mach band illusion, there's an emphasis on the change in light intensity because of photoreceptor cells exciting adjacent cells due to the leap in output (photons) when the "on" area reaches a lighter shade of grey, resulting in an increase of output, giving the illusion through contrast.&#x20;

**2b) It is said that only 1% of the information that falls on the retina is transferred to the brain by the axons of Retinal Ganglion Cells. Concisely explain what type of visual information is prioritised by RGCs at this stage of the visual system and what information is discarded. \[50 words] - 46 Word count**

Visual information that is prioritised is things that we are surrounded by that are of great significance, recognised by our subconcious brain, examples include physical objects and people. These "things" are stored in visual working memory. The information that is discarded is brightness of said "things".

## Part 3)

The waterfall illusion is a classic visual adaptation demonstration. After starting at a waterfall for a period of time, then looking at nearby stationary rocks, the rocks will appear to move upwards.&#x20;

**3) Give a concise account of why people perceive the waterfall illusion \[80 words]. 79 Word Count**

When you are observing the stimulus with motion (waterfall), the neurons that detect continuous movement in one direction (downward) become fatigued to motion at that speed and direction.  Due to the fatigue, elements of the population of sensors that are responsible for the perception are temporarily imbalanced. Therefore, when you look away, neurons that detect movement in the upwards direction are more active in comparison. This results in the appearance of the stationary object moving in the upwards direction.



