# 233555

## **Part 1)**

**1a) In the Landolt-C acuity test, a typical performance for accurately identifying the position of the gap in the C-like character was 0.75mm in size, at a distance of 3000mm. What angle is subtended by the gap at this threshold? Give your answer in Minutes of arc.**

$$
{\theta} = arctan (\dfrac{object \space size}{distance \space to \space object})
$$

$$
{\theta} = arctan (\dfrac{0.75}{3000})=0.01432394458 \space arcsec
$$

$$
0.01432394458 \times 60 = 0.8594366748 \space arcmin
$$

$$
0.859 \space arcmin \space (3.s.f)
$$

**1b) What was the visual angle calculated from the size of a single cone photoreceptor in part 1 of the workshop session?**

5 cones across the scale resulting in each cone being 0.002mm in size (0.01 / 5). Distance is the focal length, which is percieved to be 17mm.

$$
{\theta} = arctan (\dfrac{object \space size}{distance \space to \space object})
$$

$$
{\theta} = arctan (\dfrac{0.002}{17}) = 0.006740679912 \space arcsec
$$

$$
0.006740679912 \times 60 = 0.4044407947 \space arcmin
$$

$$
0.404 \space arcmin \space (3.s.f)
$$

**1c) What is the best performance one would predict for the Landolt-C acuity test, given the visual angle from 1b? Explain your answer and briefly discuss the similarity/difference in your answers to 1a and 1b \[100 words]**

~~_?? Is 0.404 arcmin the prediction? do we assume more then 1 photoreceptor is used? difference is that a single photorector is approx half of the typical performance, meaning that 2 or 3 receptors are used for the average landolt-c test._~~

## Part 2)

**2a) Give a concise account of how lateral inhibition can explain the edge enhancement seen in the mach band illusion. \[80 words] - 80 words**

_Lateral inhibition occurs when there the photoreceptor output of the "off" area surpasses the amount of photoreceptor output by the "on" area. Photoreceptors act as a sum of output, meaning that if there is lateral inhibition, the activity of the photoreceptor cell is low. The mach band illusion occurs because retinal ganglion cells emphasise the change in light intensity, as we can see from ther jumps, but the decreases show us that the accuracy of coding the light intensity itself._

__

**2b) It is said that only 1% of the information that falls on the retina is transferred to the brain by the axons of Retinal Ganglion Cells. Concisely explain what type of visual information is prioritised by RGCs at this stage of the visual system and what information is discarded. \[50 words]**

_Retinal Ganglion cells emphasise the change in light intensity, as we can see from other jumps, but the decreases show us that the accuracy of coding the light intensity itself._

__

## Part 3)

The waterfall illusion is a classic visual adaptation demonstration. After starting at a waterfall for a period of time, then looking at nearby stationary rocks, the rocks will appear to move upwards.&#x20;

**3) Give a concise account of why people perceive the waterfall illusion \[80 words].**

[https://michaelbach.de/ot/mot-adapt/index.html](https://michaelbach.de/ot/mot-adapt/index.html) - waterfall illusion

