# Week one/two

**Foundation Programming:** The past 2 weeks, we covered the fundamental basics of C, as well as discussing the large array of different types of programming. I decided to do further research and learned that [programming languages ](../../foundation-programming/types-and-range-of-programming-languages.md#range-of-programming-languages)are leaves to the tree of the [programming paradigm](../../foundation-programming/types-and-range-of-programming-languages.md#types-of-programming-languages). This consolidated my knowledge further, as it creates a network of programming theory in my thoughts. I have also gone ahead and created a [public GitBook space for brief code examples](https://adnantech.gitbook.io/code/), which i intend to expand further and use useful programming methods/concepts I have learned from working as a programmer as well as useful code blocks I have picked up from any side projects. I have also added a [public git repository to add all of my c examples](https://github.com/AdnanTech/UniversityOfSussex) we have covered in lectures or labratory sessions

**CLS:** In the last two weeks, we briefly touched on the module overview, as well as the higher education soft skills, which can be summarized as metacognitive skills, social skills, time management, organisation and self-reflection. Although the course has felt slow, it is understandable as the first weeks are introductory type lessons. I have created a \(private\) trello board to keep up with my university work. I also have a [knowledge base](https://app.gitbook.com/@adnanquisar/s/wiki/) where I ~~intend to add~~ have added my [personal research notes on metacognition](https://app.gitbook.com/@adnanquisar/s/wiki/neuroscience/metacognition) ~~by the end of the weekend~~. I also have planned to make a blog using no frameworks, purely php and javascript, as a helpful precursor to our computing modules, such has HTML, CSS, PHP and JS.

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** The first two weeks of mathematics has been trivial, as it is mainly GCSE level of math, which I have prior experience in. Because it is has been fairly straightforward, I have gone ahead and attempted and marked topic 1 and 2s worksheets, ~~which I intend to scan and upload to a git repository by the end of the week.~~ which i have uploaded to the [git repo](https://github.com/AdnanTech/maths-for-computing-worksheets) as well as the [maths module](../../mathematics-for-computing-1/). The assignment has also been released to us, which I have completed questions 1 to 4 of so far.

**Computing Project:** The first two weeks of the computing project module we have had introductory lessons, as well as some lessons on the Internet. Because it is topic I have previously covered, I decided to make pre-cursor notes on the next 2 topics, HTML and CSS. I also looked further into what the _internet_ actually is, and what a _network of networks_ really meant in terms of the global, local and nano scale on private or public sectors. I also have a project in mind \(_private_ GitBook space\) that I am currently scoping with a top down design to break to program into its constituent attributes and methods \(classes\), as well as any hardware limitations and key concepts to tackle early on, so that the project can be completed within the time frame given

**Summative Evaluation:** Overall i think the first two weeks have been a nice introductory to life as an undergraduate computer science student. I have set up appropriate workflows, such as GitBook and Trello, and got a rough feel for how many hours I should dedicate to University content, so that I can figure out how many hours to dedicate to work. It is crucial I be organised and manage my time wisely with University and Work, or I will fall behind. The course so far has been slow paced, which is to be expected, as not everyone has programmed/has a background in math. Thus, I decided to go ahead and take initiative by spending time to do more in-depth reading, on top reading ahead of topics to further consolidate my knowledge field.

