# Week four

**Foundation Programming:** This week we covered more loops and selection. Whilst I have covered these topics before with my time programming, C is a lot more close to metal \(hardware\), and therefore doesn't have high level programming language features such as garbage collection, instead you can manually adjust the heap and malloc, and more. Whilst this is beyond the week's content, it's important that I rea more complex theories to challenge myself. One of the more interesting features I learnt was the function of buffers, and how it affects Input from the user during program runtime.

**Communication and Learning Skills:** This week I found very interesting, as we covered time management in lectures. I have always felt like I do not have any time, instead I should be asking the question of "am I managing my time as well as I can?". This personal philosophy led me on a path of self improvement in which I am always trying to get the most done in 24 hours, at maximum effeciency and without burning out in the process. After the time management lectures, it advocated me to think my workflow, which includes my workflow at home, at work, at university and freelancing. We also started group work, in which my group was the only non randomly allocated group, which makes life a lot more 'normal' as our group is the only in-person group. So far, the group work has been fine, I feel like me and Jack can spearhead a lot of the operations but we are only in early days so I'll review this statement at a later date.

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** Mathematics this week I felt was rather slow. This is because we covered logarithms, a topic I am already familiar with. Therefore, I found myself zoning out a lot and letting my mind wonder. However, there was an exception, I think the way Kingsley integrates a story into his lectures, makes them captivating and intriguing regardless of previous knowledge of the topic. I also submitted my first maths assignment, early on, so it is out the way.

**Computing Project:** The focus this week was on CSS. Like maths, I'm already extremely familiar with CSS due to the fact I work part-time as a web developer at a startup company. Although, I think going back over the basics was a breath of fresh air, no sass, no minifying, no backend capabilities, just pure static websites. During lectures, I tend to wonder off and work on my personal website, as I think this is a better use of my time, if there are concepts I haven't heard of, I will stop working on my website and tune back into the lecture. 

**Summative Evaluation:** Overall I think the week has been slow, with a few interesting sparks. This is a result of covering basic topics that I already have a lot of experience in. I'm ahead of my assignments, and need to start planning out the next week 2 weeks appropiately as I now have group work added to my plate. I think for next week, I will attempt to use time circles to theorize how I spend my time and how it can be optimized, as well as seeing if there is any unbalances. I have added this to my [SMART goals](../../../../smart-goals.md#smart-goals), as well as adding an area on personal notes to record my time circles. 

