# Week three

**Foundation Programming:** Now that we have past the introductory weeks, it was a good idea to have a look at the module assessment information and hone in on what I need to know and what is beyond the module specification, therefore redundant extra work. From looking at the module specification, I can conclude that **all** programming **topics** are important as they **correlate** directly to module **assessments**, which includes an **exam** and **2 projects**. This week we covered operators again, program design and iteration. My take from the _program design topic_ is that it can be _tedious_ and _unproductive_ to design the program **with Richard's rules**. However, I also understand it is part of the topic and the _rules I will abide_ to in order to **pass** the **assessed projects**. The highlight of foundation programming classes this week was the difference between ++num and ++num during assignment, this got me thinking about the **order of precedence** and how machines, more importantly how **machines operate during** the use the **C programming language**, and interpret the code on a **semantic** level, just like **humans** interpret **semantic** differently based on the language. _For example, Arabic is read from right to left, whereas this is not the case in British English, as it is read from left to right. It is especially interesting to use Arabs in this case since they were key motivators towards the development of mathematics at a fundamental level, whereas the English dictated the development of machines on a fundamental level._

**Communication and Learning Skills:** As with Foundation Programming, I decided to dissect the module specification and it's assessment so I can focus on getting the best grade possible, without doing any redundant work. From looking at the module specification, I have concluded that the **learning diary**, **portfolio** and a **group project** are the assessed section of the course. Whilst the portfolio has not been fully revealed to us, at the moment I can conclude that the **portfolio** entails the **PDP**, as well as a **group project** that has **technical documentation**. Also, the **study skills** are _merely supplementary_ to help complete the tasks. In addition, a lot of the study skills topics we cover in class will be **redundant** due to the fact I have a **solid fundamental** of _routines, habits, time management and cognitive science_ due to my personal [knowledge base](https://app.gitbook.com/@adnanquisar/s/wiki/categories-of-life). **This week we did x**

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** Following the same procedure from the previous module learning diary entries, I evaluated that **all topics** will need to be **understood** on a **fundamental level** as well as great **logic skills** in order to complete the _problem sets_, as well as the **exam**. I also contemplated whether the mathematic worksheets are worth my time if I already have a fundamental understanding from **prior math experience,** I came to the conclusion that the **worksheets** are **not worth my time**. There is a caveat, which is if I do not understand the topic on a fundamental level, I intend to complete the worksheet activities fully. I think it would be a good idea to dedicate only a little time to mathematic revision due to prior exposure to mathematic theories I have covered, that overlap with the module content. Instead, I will spend the **extra hours** on **other modules** that need work where appropriate. **The past week we have covered trigonometry.**

**Computing Project:** Now that we have past the introductory weeks, it was a good idea to have a look at the module assessment information and hone in on what I need to know and what is beyond the module specification. As a result I have decided to mainly **focus on the project**, along with the **technical documentation** that comes with it. Meanwhile, I intend to create brief notes on the **web development** side of the module, as well as **creating my blog** to get hands on **experience** with the _web technologies_. **The past week we have covered HTML.**

**Summative Evaluation:** _Work hard, work smart, work consistently_. This is a philosophy my basketball coach taught me when I was younger. I have started to **plan** out the next **day in advance,** during the **evening prior** to the day. As well as this, I've taken an approach of being more **specific with my time management**, this means that instead of just _blocking out a session_ on my google **calendar** for an activity such as "reading", I've **refactored** the process to hone in on a specific module task, for example "CLS PDP" or "MFC1 Trigonometry Worksheets". This allows me to be more specific in my tasks, thus my goals become clearer.

As well as **refining** my **workflow** to only _abstract_ the **relevant** information. I have taken the 4 modules for Autumn and have split them two _categories_, **algorithmic and logic based**, and **iterative documentation** based_. Mathematics for Computing 1_ and _Foundation Programming_ both **subside** in the **algorithmic and logic** **based** category as they require learning **core principles**, and applying the principles through **consistent practice**, making use of logical thinking skills. The other category, **iterative documentation based** modules consist of _Communication and Learning Skills_ as well as the _Computing Project_, with these topics I will take a more **iterative approach**, which takes the form of **documentation**, as well as brief notes.

