# Week eleven

**Foundation Programming: **This week we covered **bitwise operators. **I found the bitwise operators lectures themselves pretty **bland**, they are_ completely unrelated to any assignments as of the first term_, as well seeming as if they do not have many good uses outisde of encryption, although a quick [google search suggested otherwise](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2096916/real-world-use-cases-of-bitwise-operators).

**Communication and Learning Skills: **This week our lectures were based around the concept of **revision **and **revision techniques**. To be brutally honest, and this will be a personal take for the most part, but I found the **lecture content **to be completely **redundant**. This is due to the fact _I am already well versed in _[_metacognitive skills_](https://adnantech.gitbook.io/wiki/neuroscience/metacognition), and **I manage my time well, **using Google calendar.

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** The agenda this week was **Karnaugh maps. **As per, Kingsley did a good job of **showing computational methods **to **solve problems **that I traditionally would solve with pen and paper. To add, I think recently _I've learnt to appreciate using paper more, as opposed to technology_.

**Computing Project: **This week we learnt about **JavaScript **and **PHP**. I think Ramiz did a good job of touching a lot of the many bases of server side scripting languages. **JavaScript **I am already incredibly **familiar with **due to having to use the language at work. PHP on the other hand, not so much, I will _need to use PHP to design my blog's backend_, so I found the **lecture content **quite **insightful**. Also, Ramiz also showed me some of the **functionality of MariaDB**, as I was **testing with the XAMPP** software in the lab sessions, which was introduced during our lectures. Because of this short interaction, and a good grasp of SQL from prior exposure from work, I think I got _a good jump start to the fundamentals entailing the module next semester, called Database Design_.

**Summative Evaluation: **So, I felt like this week was **more about turning up than it was about learning**. I felt quite **lethargic **from the **burnout **and **mental fatigue**. Although, I'm ready to bounce back next week. Last week I discussed the idea of balancing work, and working too much. I realise now that I **have** to **work hard **in the **areas that matter**, I need to push my limits. My [goals](https://adnantech.gitbook.io/projects/goals) are massive, the only way to reach them is to perform at my full potential. To do so, it's a matter of _getting better at controlling the mind_.

Academically, the majority of the** first semester** has been pretty **straight forward**, _content was not difficult_, instead it was more an equation of _the amount of work you put in, will be proportional to the size of the reward of the assignment grade_. I've had time to **test **a few **different hobbies**, **techniques **and **mind sets**. I have repeated it before, but I believe university is about_ becoming who you want to be, not who you should be_.

The **last 2 weeks **though, have proved to be **challenging mentally**, as **everything felt a bit everywhere. **_I felt as if my mind wasn't as sharp as it usually is_**,** and that I drifted away from my usual academic self. I also still have _2 assignments to complete by next Thursday_. However, **Christmas break **should give me a good chance to **recalibrate**, and **get back on track**. I also have **created **a rough **revision plan**, but more importantly, I've written down a lot of _topics to research to try understand my mind more, these include: stress, sleep, exercise, mental fatigue, energy, startups and relationships_. As well as this,** I've written clear visions I want to achieve in the upcoming years**. Realising you have to make sacrifices to achieve those goals will be pivotal, for example, accepting a mediocre module assignment grade, in exchange for getting another assignment done, and such.

