# Week four

**Foundation Programming: **This week we covered more **loops **and **selection**. Whilst I have covered these topics _before _with my time programming, C is a lot more close to metal (hardware), and therefore doesn't have high level programming language features such as **garbage collection**, instead you can manually adjust the **heap **and **malloc**, and more. Whilst this is _beyond the week's content_, it's important that I read more _complex _theories to **challenge myself**. One of the more _interesting _features I learnt was the function of **buffers**, and how it affects **Input **from the **user **during program **runtime**.

**Communication and Learning Skills: **This week I found very interesting, as we covered **time management** in lectures. I have always **felt **like I _do not have any time_, instead I should be **asking the question **of "_am I managing my time as well as I can?_". This personal philosophy led me on a path of self improvement in which I am always trying to get **the most done in 24 hours**, at _maximum _**effeciency **and _without _**burning out** in the process. After the time management lectures, it advocated me to assess my **workflow**, which includes my workflow at _home_, at _work_, at _university _and _freelancing_. We also started **group work**, in which my group was the only _non randomly_ allocated group, which makes life a lot more '**normal**' as our group is one of the only** in-person **group. So far, the group work has been _fine_, I feel like me and Jack can **spearhead **a lot of the **operations, **which can mean we make a lot of the **project decisions**, but we are only in_ early days _so I'll review this statement at a _later date_.

**Mathematics For Computing 1: **Mathematics this week I felt was rather **slow**. This is because we covered **logarithms**, a topic I am_ already familiar _with. Therefore, I found myself _zoning out a lot _and letting my **mind wonder**. However, there was an **exception**, I think the way Kingsley integrates a **story **into his lectures, makes them **captivating **and **intriguing **at times,** **regardless of _previous _knowledge of the topic. I also **submitted **my first _maths assignment_, **early **on, so it is out the way.

**Computing Project: **The focus this week was on **CSS**. Like maths, I'm already _extremely familiar_ with **CSS **due to the fact I **work **part-time as a **web developer** at a startup company. Although, I think going _back over the basics_ was a **breath of fresh** air, no _sass_, no _minifying_, no _backend _capabilities, just pure **static websites**. During lectures, I tend to **wonder off** and work on my _personal website_, as I think this is a _better _use of my time, if there are concepts I _haven't _heard of, I will **stop working **on my website and** tune back in **to the lecture. 

**Summative Evaluation: **Overall I think the week has been **slow**, with a _few _interesting **sparks**. This is a result of covering _basic _topics that I **already have **a lot of **experience **in. I'm _ahead _of my assignments, and need to start **planning **out the next week 2 weeks appropiately as I now have **group work** added to my plate. I think for next week, I will _attempt _to use **time circles** to theorize _how _I **spend **my **time **and _how _it can be **optimized**, as well as _seeing _if there is any **unbalances**. I have _added _this to my [SMART goals](broken-reference), as well as adding a Time Circles page [**here**](../../../lecture-notes/foundation-year-autumn-notes/communication-and-learning-skills-notes/time-circles.md), on this GitBook, that will **record my time circles **for the week beginning on 26/10/2020. 
