# Week nine

**Foundation Programming: **This week we covered **Files, Testing and Strings with files**. Whilst they are _concepts I have seen and used before_, Richard gave us a clear **test plan template **to use for our **second **programming **assignment**. In addition, a lot of **hints **were **dropped **from Richard to use in our **assignment**, as **files **is **used **very **heavily**.

Following up from last week, I asked Richard in an email to explain some of the **differences **between the **stack **and **heap**, as _pointers can be accessed within the stack and/or the heap_, as well as the **benefits **of **modern compilers**. To which Richard responded a very thorough and thoughout response. From Richard's response, I gathered that the **stack **is a lot **faster **than the **heap**, and the **heap **allows for **manual dynamic memory allocation**. Modernised **compilers **allow for **less function calls **and **variable copying**, **boosting performance**,_ regardless of programming style_, as even if you use by value, _modern compilers translate it to by reference_ to **increase performance**.

**Communication and Learning Skills: **This week I gained an understanding in the methodology of writing **technical documentation**. The content was **straight forward** and digestable. It was a **new **topic, and _writing concisely is likely one of my weakest areas_, as a lot of my work and studying are logic based, not writing based. I also learnt that **technical documents **are vastly **different **to **structured reports**. There was _not a lot of content to learn this week_, during the lab sessions, Ramiz **tracked our progress **and a_llowed us to work on assignments or any other important work_.

**Mathematics For Computing 1:** The agenda this week was **more differentiation. **Which included **trigonmetry differentiation**, the **product **rule, the **quotient **rule, the **chain **rule and more **numerical method ways of differentiation** using _MATLAB _and _Excel_. I already had a _base knowledge of these rules and methods from prior education_, but it was **refreshing **to hear them again, as there are a lot of rules to remember and use, even though they are only slight_ variations** **of one another_. It was also reminded to us that t_he formula sheet containing most of the key equations will be given to us in our exam._

**Computing Project: **This week we learnt about some of the types of **images **that exist in the _digital world_. Whilst **unrelated **content **to **any of my **assignments**, I found this topic fairly interesting, as it gave insight to the cases where an image format is optimal when building a website. During the lab session, Ramiz was understanding of my goals, and experience in web development. As a result, he was accepting of me working on my website, instead of carrying out the web activity. This was a nice gesture as the website will be part of my portfolio, thus carrys more weight/priority than the web activity.  

**Summative Evaluation: **This week was a pretty **authentic experience**, as the course has **ramped up **to the level where I truly **feel **like it's **university**. _Assignments, new content, bouncing ideas off of peers and putting in extra hours in the computer labs_. Saying so, I can't wait to take my foot off the gas a little once term ends. I've been **working hard all term** to achieve the** best results** I can, but it can be **exhausting**. In addition, I have started to_ roughly sketch out my term break schedule_, the **motvation for half term** is to _reduce working hours, increase relaxing hours whilst keeping a steady progressive pace and consistent workflow_.

As well as making **good progress academically **throughout the week, I have made significant **changes **to my **routine **and **lifestyle structure**. To account for my **sedentary **lifestyle, I have now i_ncreased my exercising hours_, throughout the week. Also, I have _shifted my waking hours up_, so I can get some **deep**, uninterrupted **work **and/or studying **done **in the **early morning**, whilst also _increasing the amount of time I am asleep_, due to the _research on the effects that sleep deprivation can have on one's body_. In addition, I now have a _dedicated time slot in the morning for **meditation**_, to **benefit **my mind's **health**. All in all, I believe that these _slight changes will adhere to the butterfly effect, making massive **improvements **to **health **and **productivity over time**_.

